# sales_database
In the ever-changing e-commerce business world, where competition has no bound, leveraging data has become a means used to thrive and have a fair share of the market. This database illustrates a clear example of how gathering business data can improve user experience, optimize business operations, and foster a more strategic decision-making process. 

The first instance to uncover in this dataset is identifying sesasonal trends (how orders have fluctuated in a given period). Therefore, giving an understanding on the months in the year that experienced a high or low volume in demand. The ability to get insights into periods of higher or lower demand for specific products is highly useful for inventory management. By understanding when certain products experience increased sales, businesses can adjust their inventory levels accordingly. The business can stock up on popular items before the peak season to avoid stockouts and plan inventory reductions during off-peak periods to minimize carrying costs and marketing plans. More so, an analysis on hourly and weekly fluctuation in order size is identified in this database. By analyzing orders on a hourly or weekly basis can reveal patterns in customer behavior, such as increased order volumes on specific days of the week. This information can help optimize staffing and logistics to handle higher order loads during peak times. We can also capture a clear understanding on high performing departmemts and products that emerges the most revenue for the company. Knowing the most profitable products allows the business to focus on promoting and stocking those items, potentially leading to higher revenue and improved profit margins.
